---
title: libchewing 0.10.0 Released
---
libchewing 0.10.0 Released: 2025-07-26

What's New in libchewing 0.10.0 (July 26, 2025)
---------------------------------------------------------

* Features
  - New keyboard layout Colemak.
  - cli: New --fix option enables auto correction for simple tsi.src errors
  - cli: Allow multiple whitespace in dictionary source file
* Developer Features
  - New API `chewing_bopomofo_String()` can be used to retrieve current bopomofo
    string in the buffer. This deprecates the old non-thread safe
    `chewing_bopomofo_String_static`.
  - New API `chewing_cand_string_by_index()` can be used in UILess mode to query
    candidate string from candidate list.
* Changes
  - BREAKING: System dictionary loader now loads base and extra dictionary
    separately. (Rust)
  - Simple mode now always auto-commit after candidate selection to align with
    ㄅ/半 experience.
* Bug Fixes
  - `chewing_keystroke_CheckAbsorb()` correctly return true when a keystroke
    was absorbed due to error.
  - `chewing_commit_preedit_buf()` does not return error when the bopomofo
    buffer is empty, to match previous behavior.
  - `chewing_clean_preedit_buf()` does not return error when the bopomofo
    buffer is empty, to match previous behavior.
  - Avoid panics in `chewing_new()`
  - Don't panic when conversion fails
  - Don't panic when symbols table contains empty line
  - Avoid opening empty symbol table
  - Skip malformed lines in abbrev table
  - Handle special symbol input normally when easy symbol is enabled
  - Ignore zero-length phrases
  - Use correct %AppData% path on Windows
  - Fallback to Windows default sys path
  - Use correct search path separator on Windows
  - Check file existence with Windows quirks
  - Ensure to reload dictionary after flush buffers
  - Esc key clears buffer in simple mode
  - Correctly allocate and free array returned to C FFI
  - Initialize learned user phrase freq with orig_freq
  - Ensure user phrase takes precedence
* Dictionary
  - Add alternative sound for 麼
  - Removed some inconsistent phrases (#709)
* Build
  - Do not link to libcmtd on Windows
  - Bump corrosion to 0.5.1 to fix rustup breaking change
  - Bump MSRV to 1.85
  - Bump tools and testhelper to 2024 edition
  - Stop updating mini.dat for every build
  - Move C headers to the capi module
  - Remove unused cargo-vet settings
  - Clean-up porting layer usage in tests
  - Add upper bound to cmake_minimum_required version
  - Enable cli test
  - Stop depending on the directories crate
* Files
  - <https://github.com/chewing/libchewing/releases/download/v0.10.0/libchewing-0.10.0.tar.zst>
  - <https://github.com/chewing/libchewing/releases/download/v0.10.0/libchewing-0.10.0.tar.zst.asc>
  - <https://github.com/chewing/libchewing/releases/download/v0.10.0/libchewing-0.10.0.tar.zst.minisig>
  - <https://github.com/chewing/libchewing/releases/download/v0.10.0/libchewing-0.10.0.tar.zst.sha256>

libchewing releases can be verified with OpenPGP

    gpgv libchewing-0.10.0.tar.zst.asc libchewing-0.10.0.tar.zst

or minisign

    minisign -Vm libchewing-0.10.0.tar.zst \
             -P RWRzJFnXiLZleAyCIv1talBjyRewelcy9gzYQq9pd3SKSFBPoy57sf5s
