---
title: libchewing 0.11.0 Released
---
libchewing 0.11.0 Released: 2026-01-10

What's New in libchewing 0.11.0 (January 10, 2026)
---------------------------------------------------------

* Features
  - cli: Now outputs and reads dictionary metadata in source file
  - cli: Detects mismatched phrase word count and syllable count
  - cli: Ignores empty line or line starts with # when processing dictionary
  - editor: Support optional sorting candidates by frequency. Previously the
    candidates are always sorted by their order in the dictionary.
* Developer Features
  - New API `chewing_handle_KeyboardEvent()` can be used to support any
    keyboard layout combination without updating libchewing. Other keyboard
    handling API will be deprecated in future release.
  - New API `chewing_new3()` and `chewing_get_defaultDictonaryNames()` can be
    used to initialize a chewing context with specific dictionaries enabled.
  - New boolean config option `chewing.sort_candidates_by_frequency` can be
    set to enable sorting candidates by frequency.
  - Rust type SyllableSlice is removed from public interfaces.
  - Provide libchewing as a Swift package (C based API only).
* Bug Fixes
  - Auto shift cursor after candidate selection now moves the cursor to the
    next phrase instead of the next word.
  - Fixed a bug when switching input mode from Chinese to English, the state
    can be stuck in entering bopomofo.
  - Fixed the frequency estimation function used by phrase learning to really
    take last used time into consideration. Also assign higher frequency to
    newly learned phrases.
* Changes
  - SQLite support is now fully optional and disabled by default
  - rust: new sqlite-bundled feature can be used to build with bundled sqlite
    to simplify the build configuration on Windows
  - cli: will try to migrate to new schema when dumping chewing.sqlite3 file
  - Use less heuristic when calculating phrase segmentation score.
  - Reimplement scoring algorithm to use conditional probability.
  - cli: init-database will no longer normalize the frequency of single word
    phrase to zero.
  - autolearn: new phrases with break words inside will be learned both with
    and without the break word.
  - rust: simplified dictionary API.
  - rust: the DictionaryMut trait is merged back to the Dictionary trait.
  - rust: the Editor::set_editor_options now accepts a closure for setting
    options in place.
* Dictionary
  - Default symbols.dat now includes commonly used emojis.
  - Dictionary data are built directly from the libchewing-data repository
* Build
  - Bump MSRV to 1.88
* Files
  - <https://github.com/chewing/libchewing/releases/download/v0.11.0/libchewing-0.11.0.tar.zst>
  - <https://github.com/chewing/libchewing/releases/download/v0.11.0/libchewing-0.11.0.tar.zst.asc>
  - <https://github.com/chewing/libchewing/releases/download/v0.11.0/libchewing-0.11.0.tar.zst.minisig>
  - <https://github.com/chewing/libchewing/releases/download/v0.11.0/libchewing-0.11.0.tar.zst.sha256>

libchewing releases can be verified with OpenPGP

    gpgv libchewing-0.11.0.tar.zst.asc libchewing-0.11.0.tar.zst

or minisign

    minisign -Vm libchewing-0.11.0.tar.zst \
             -P RWRzJFnXiLZleAyCIv1talBjyRewelcy9gzYQq9pd3SKSFBPoy57sf5s
